IN-964 Helm chart template (#19)
instruqt/templates: helm/01-check-nginx/assignment.md

---
slug: check-nginx

> id: vaabn8etikvs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: o5uzceb0lsbs
```

type: challenge
title: Check that the nginx chart is deployed
teaser: A setup script has used helm to install a nginx chart. Check that it worked!
notes:
- type: text
  contents: Helm is one of the most popular package manager for kubernetes!
tabs:
- title: Shell
  type: terminal
  hostname: kubernetes-vm
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 600
---
Description
===========

### Describe the challenge

Helm has been installed in this machine and the nginx chart as well. You can check that nginx is available with this command

```
helm list
```

> If you see nginx listed, you can click on check!

Reviewer 2: I think we want the assignment to be split into sections as we just did it for every existing template: https://github.com/instruqt/templates/pull/18.

> If you see nginx listed, you can click on check!

Reviewer: I think this still needs to have the copy I sent you yesterday :-) Feel free to improve it of course, but it seems like it's missing. Let me know if you cannot find it.

Author: I just missed a commit, check again. The description is much better now (I hope!)

---
slug: check-nginx
id: o5uzceb0lsbs
type: challenge
title: Check that the NGINX chart is installed
teaser: A setup script has used helm to install an NGINX chart. Verify that it worked!
notes:
- type: text
  contents: Helm is one of the most popular package managers for kubernetes!
tabs:
- title: Shell
  type: terminal
  hostname: kubernetes-vm
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 600
---

> 👀 Verify that Helm is available
> ==========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
👀 Verify that Helm is available
================================
```

see comment below

Helm has been installed on this virtual machine alongside an NGINX ingress controller Helm chart.

You can check that Helm is available and its version with this command:

```bash
helm version
```

> You will get a message with the build info which should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should get a message with the build info that looks like this:
```

```
version.BuildInfo{Version:"v3.7.2", GitCommit:"663a896f4a815053445eec4153677ddc24a0a361", GitTreeState:"clean", GoVersion:"go1.16.10"}
```

> 👀 Verify that the NGINX chart is installed and the pods are running
> ==========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🚀 Verify that the NGINX chart is installed and the pods are running
====================================================================
```

Let's try and use different Emojis for these to be consistent with other tracks ;) Feel free to find one you like more.

Perhaps we can find a different word than "verify", since it's also the first word in the header above. WDYT?

[Here's a link](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.19/#setext-header-underline ) that describes how setext header underlines work, you should make them the same length as the header. They do work without, but for readability and consistency.

You can use Helm to show all the charts that are installed on this machine. To do this, run this command:

```bash
helm list
```

You will get a message with the ingress-nginx chart information, it should look like this (note that the status should be deployed):

```
NAME                    NAMESPACE       REVISION        UPDATED                                 STATUS          CHART                   APP VERSION
my-ingress-nginx        default         1               2022-01-06 16:00:34.622220076 +0000 UTC deployed        ingress-nginx-4.0.13    1.1.0
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Extra space

Aditionally, you can check that the NGINX pods are running, remember that Helm works over kubernetes. Just run this command to verify that the NGINX pods are up and running:

```

> kubectl get po

Reviewer: is `po` just short for `pods`?

Author: yes, it is

```

This should show you the NGINX controller pods:

```
NAME                                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
svclb-my-ingress-nginx-controller-fwrxs       2/2     Running   0          3m49s
my-ingress-nginx-controller-b9d8cddf4-gwlgr   1/1     Running   0          3m49s
```

> If the status of all the pods shows that they are running, you can click the check button to finish this track!

Reviewer: There's nothing the user can really do if they are not, so I wouldn't guide users through this. It's a template, rather than an actual track.

```suggestion
You can click the check button to finish this track!
```
